---
layout: post
title: 3 Months at Hailo
tagline: My experience as an uuberintern at Hailo
github: darioml
image: https://0.gravatar.com/avatar/7a9c124355799a0f32fd22c1a46d0fb7?d=https%3A%2F%2Fidenticons.github.com%2Fdbc04841538ba5be0e1da58be792a4cf.png
category: experience
---

Just over three months ago, I arrived at the Somerset House for my first day at Hailo. Impressed by both the location (Nothing can beat central London - seriously) and my interviewers, and excited at getting my hands onto hailo's great stack, I was really hyped at spending my summer at the company.

Yet, I was still clueless about what the next three months would hold. Would I be thrown into one of those terrible "internship schemes"? Would I be that intern who would be abused for slave labor? What languages would I be working in - Go, PHP? Would I even be doing programming? 

I asked the reception for "Hailo". Almost immediately, I was told to follow one of the staff members as we brushed past a load of tourists. The Somerset house is actually an exhibition area in a beautiful, spacious campus on the Strand - as such, it's always jam packed with a ton of tourists with cameras to their faces.

I was brought up to the third floor (right at the top), and was introduced to where I thought I would be spending the next three months - the "Web" team. We were in charge of internal tools and public facing websites. The team then - consisting of three people, one of the arriving only a week before me - was relatively small and was focused only on providing "web" for the whole company.

With my first nespresso in a yellow branded mug, I sat down with one member of the team who brought me through the hailo stack. Imagine me - a young, self-taught programmer, who studies an almost fully unrelated course - sitting with some of London's best. Joining a project where I was the apprentice was such a great experience - hearing someone argue against my (what I thought were valid) points and make me feel dumb was fantastic. My first job? Technical debt - improving the workflow. Everything, from the way we deployed, to the way we managed assets was outdated. And this while starting to talk about a new project, "Hailo UI"; a 'bootstrap-for-hailo'.

This didn't last long. Not at all actually. Going through restructuring under a new CTO, teams were being restructured, and just as I started getting comfortable in my team, we were dissolved. I was made part of a newly formed "Revenue Protection" team, with other members of the team scattered across the company. Thrown into a jungle of money and java, I was drowning in a world of unknown (I was still working on websites - a web developer doesn't understand neither money nor java). Two weeks later, a second change brought me into the Business Operations (... "Biz Ops") team - responsible for all services, websites and data.

And that was my role for my remaining time at Hailo. Working mainly on the web-sided things of all services - while sneaking away to get the ball rolling on refactoring and scrapping bad things.

What have I left behind? Aside from my name being stamped everywhere across our git repositories, I'm proud to leave the company having started the Hailo Web UI project. I've also rewritten the labs website (it's awful, I know. But I'm young), and started a snowball in restructuring our online presence. Finally, I started (and hope to one day finish) an improved method for sharing, testing and releasing our app versions internally.

Hailo is a great company to work for. Very few tech companies in London are as big, yet still to truthful to a startup culture. You have a say in the projects you work for, and everyone is willing to help you with any additional projects you want. As such, Hailo's attracted some great engineers; not one person I worked with was incompetent, and not one day in the office was unenjoyable.
I'm thankful for my time at Hailo, and hope to stay in touch with all the great people I met.

Want more?

<a href="https://twitter.com/darioaml" class="twitter-follow-button" data-show-count="false" data-size="large" data-dnt="true">Follow @darioaml</a>
<script>!function(d,s,id){var js,fjs=d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0],p=/^http:/.test(d.location)?'http':'https';if(!d.getElementById(id)){js=d.createElement(s);js.id=id;js.src=p+'://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js';fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js,fjs);}}(document, 'script', 'twitter-wjs');</script>